Through this paper, the author has expressed his views on what a release plan means, difficulties faced in creating a release plan and the different types of approaches to release plan. Release planning helps in decision making for selecting features and assigning them in order to create a sequence of consecutive products release. Creating a release plan is not an easy task. A proper understanding of the planning objectives, constrains and important stakeholders and the feature preference is necessary. RP rarely relies on a popular model or methodology. Optimal selection and selecting features involve the rise of the complexity factor. More time is consumed for planning and follow up re-planning is being practised.
There are two kinds of approaches to the release planning.
1.	The art of release planning approach: This approach is involves the human intelligence in handling the conflicting objectives and constrains.
2.	The science of release planning approach: This approach deals the problems by formalizing them and use computational algorithms to obtain the best solutions.
The art of release planning approach:
 As the RP is not well defined and there is an organization’s lack of emphasis in the processes due to the lack of maturity in the RP process, it involves human intuition, communication and capabilities to solve the problem before seeking for its solution. In agile development, RP concentrates on planning on the next iteration which is done by conducting physical meetings among the most important stakeholders in order to discuss which features to be developed next and the effort calculation for those features. However RP fails to work well in deciding features and to prioritise them when large number stakeholders are involves in the agile development.
The science of release planning approach: 
In this approach by trying to formulating the problem approximately so that by working on this formulized problem, we can get the meaningful result. Different optimization approaches are modelled that helps in working on the features that satisfies the customer need within the given budget. These optimization approaches are most suitable for large size problems but somehow fails to give the costumer a chance to take part in the RP decisions and also they don’t plan beyond a single release. Decision variables are also considered that focuses on the set of new functionality, costumers’ change request, or defect correction and the features are assigned to a finite number K of release option. This approach also deals with the two types of dependency constrains C (coupling relation) and P (precedence relation), where coupled features are to be released jointly as they depend on each other and the precedent feature are released in a specific order. As all resources play an important role in the RP, while discussing and calculating the resources constrains, constrains that are related to budget and effort resources are taken into consideration.  As not all the stakeholders hold the equal importance, a scale that measures the importance level of each stakeholder is considered and is calculated in order to identify the most important stakeholders. Features are prioritised based on the values and urgency by using an ordinal nine point scale. An equation is formed by making certain assumptions that helps in forming a balance way of the planning objectives that includes aspects such as value, risk, urgency, satisfaction, dissatisfaction and return on the investment.
This paper also discuss about the hybrid approach based on integer linear programming. The algorithm adopted in this approach helps in solving the sequence of linear programming problems without integer conditions after which the problems are well understood and solved efficiently. To generate a set of good solutions, this approach is combined with heuristics. Though this approach, the set problems as variants of the original formal model are formulated after which the problem variants are solved in order to get a set of qualified alternative solutions. Since there is a coping problem in both art and science base approach, this hybrid approach offers a high level framework stressing on the continuous process that works on planning and re-planning.  Different tasks are performed in the three phases to improve this approach during the planning process.
Modelling phase:  The main activities in this phase are planning objective and constrains, offering stakeholder voting and estimation of resources.
Exploration phase: Algorithms are developed on integer programming to find out the solution space and generate alternative solutions.
Consolidation phase: Algorithms are developed that helps the decision makers to understand the problem better. The decision made after solving the problems, help in reducing the size of the problem and the complexity for the next iteration. At the end of the paper, a problem is considered as an example and the solution process is discussed.




